Previously on House of Cards...
What did the girl say to you?
She said she hopes I die.
and that you
become the President.
I want a woman
in the White House.
We need you to implicate
yourself in the death of Zoe Barnes.
I don't think your husband
should be front and center.
What I want is for Francis
Underwood to go to jail.
I'm guilty.
I killed Zoe Barnes.
You have all used
me far long enough.
So. I shall resign the office of
President of the United States.
You've made me look
absolutely ridiculous...
- No!
- Ill-prepared and ignorant.
We're a few hours away
from my official resignation.
and you still have not
agreed to pardon me.
I was going over our
list for Vice President.
A lot of the people I
spoke to suggested me.
It's hard to know who
to trust these days.
If she doesn't pardon me.
I'll kill her.
My turn.
Stop. Claire Hale. Stop!
"I'd like to fry her eyeballs.
"If no one else steps up
to kill the President. I will.
"I'd enjoy it." A tweet
out of North Dakota.
What else?
"God never intended a
woman to rule this land.
"She is the Antichrist.
And. a Jew."
A Jew? Do we really
need to hear all of this?
Yes.
An unpublished editorial. Someone
pointing a gun at your likeness.
Lots of other online
stuff. including
- a contest...
- For?
For the most creative
way to kill you.
- And the winner?
- Rather not say. ma'am.
I want to hear. Just
hand me the report. Rick.
It involves. essentially.
skinning you.
Cutting your body
into dozens of pieces
and arranging them in the
shape of the American flag.
Flesh for the white
stripes. blood for the red.
What else?
Lot of threats involving
the C-word. ma'am.
Lots and lots of the
C-word. unfortunately.
You mean "Claire"?
It's a long list. If you
really want me to. I'll...
Listen. I am not the first
President to face threats.
I know with Francis. sometimes.
there were several a day.
Is it about the same? What
we're dealing with here?
It's. um. significantly up.
- By how much?
- There are roughly
four times as many threats on
any given day since you took office.
Now. it's twice that.
since Francis died.
I thought everyone
loves a widow.
Well. not if she's also
Commander-in-Chief. I guess.
These are not rational
people. Madam President.
But. ma'am. as far
as today's threat.
regarding your first
scheduled appearance...
We're canceling the appearance.
We're not canceling.
It's a military base.
That's got to be the safest
place on Earth for a President.
An anonymous soldier
has made a serious threat...
To shoot me in the cunt on behalf
of the United States of America.
Yes. Mark. I heard.
The threat's unconfirmed.
He says he's among
those shipping out today.
- Anyone can claim that.
- And that you have no right
waging war in Syria. You. in
particular. I think we stay away.
Rick. don't you agree?
There's no proof the threat is
credible. Isn't that right. Rick?
Our Intelligence
Division is investigating.
and the advance team is already
there. but it'll take at least a day
- to comb through that base.
- At least a day.
I think what the Vice President
says is the best course.
Maybe by tomorrow. you could...
- Tomorrow is the 5th of July.
- Yes. ma'am.
So. what do you suggest I do?
Wish the nation a
happy belated birthday?
- Our only concern is your safety.
- We're not canceling.
I am sending those
soldiers onto a battlefield.
The first female President
of the United States
is not gonna keep her mouth
shut on the Fourth of fucking July.
Lieutenant General
Gallagher would understand.
- I could appear instead. Speak for you.
- Stop.
Is it my safety
that concerns you.
or my potential
endorsement of Gallagher?
Your safety. first. of course.
But singling her out.
that's a provocation.
And so? I can't provoke them?
You're forwarding a candidate
the Shepherds are against.
in their home state. after
months of negotiation.
This is not a negotiation.
this is an ultimatum.
Sign the bill. or
what? Or what. Mark?
When Francis was looking
to finance his foundation.
why did you point him
towards Bill and Annette?
- I didn't. Raymond Tusk arranged it.
- Or maybe they reached out to him?
I don't remember. What does it
matter? They're working with you now.
I need to meet with
the Shepherds directly.
Madam President?
I'll see them before my
appearance at the base.
- You can't.
- I what?
- I'll let them know.
- Thank you.
You're due at the base by 4:45.
which will have you
back here by 8:30.
The fireworks show
begins right after 9:00.
And the Examiner would
love your okay on the photos.
Is there any progress on
the source of the sound?
The GSA is still
looking into it.
They're checking the floorboards
above and below. in case there's...
I don't want to wait anymore.
Please tell the
executive housekeeper
I'd like the former President's
belongings packed up.
I'll have it taken care of.
It's not true what he told
you. all those years ago.
That there are two
kinds. useful and useless.
There's only one
kind. Pain is pain.
Francis. I'm done with you.
There. No more pain.
You do this all day?
I'm under psychiatric observation.
Seth. This is what you do.
- Who's your new tailor?
- You gotta look the part.
So. when do they decide.
whether you're crazy or not?
Because if you're not. you
should come work for us.
"Us"?
Have you been working
there for about five minutes?
- It's been a month. actually.
- Hmm.
So his body wasn't even cold?
It's what he would have wanted.
The Underwood Foundation
was basically gonna be modeled
after the Shepherd
Freedom Foundation.
- I don't need the job.
- Oh?
Well. for a confessed
murderer. you're pretty confident.
- I'm about to be pardoned.
- Pardon?
You really think that
she's gonna give you one?
As usual. you don't know what
the fuck you're talking about.
You know. there wasn't the kind
of crowd that you'd expect for him
down there in Gaffney.
He wanted to be buried in
Arlington. Not next to his father.
That's not what his wife said.
Tell me something.
She even shed a tear?
You know. I'm almost
envious to tell you the truth.
That even beyond the grave. you'd
do anything for Francis Underwood.
Doug. do you have my lighter?
Much obliged.
Was that who I thought it was?
Fred Amburg? He
went off the deep end?
Everyone has problems. Seth.
Especially the ones
who think they don't.
- Claire.
- Annette.
Oh. did you get my note?
I haven't had the courage
to read the condolences yet.
It's good to see you
finally out and about.
Oh. what you've been through.
You know all about it.
Well. for a long time. I
pretended he was still alive.
Out of town.
It was our son. Duncan.
that really saved me.
Of course. we weren't married
anywhere near as long as you and Frank.
Claire Hale. Nine years?
Late spring. Sun Valley.
You look exactly the same.
Well. it's cities that age
you. it's what I tell everyone.
Well. I hope you don't mind saying
hello to a few of our closest friends.
They're just here for a cocktail
before the sun goes down. and
the rest of the party shows up.
My sister's fireworks show
have become a bit of a tradition.
Don't worry. They
know how to be discreet.
Scotty here. just got his
hands on Nexis Security.
I heard you are speaking
to the Vice President.
It's a company of
peacekeepers. mostly.
Oh. tremendous potential
to create global partnerships.
Your husband helped
me secure the deal.
I wanted to bring him onto
the board. Bill was saying...
Yes. I was just saying.
Why in the world do they play the
1812 Overture at a fireworks show?
It's Russian for Christ's
sake. in every sense.
- This is Tabitha.
- Ah. Peters. I know.
Frank. Wasn't he planning
on being here today?
He was.
You must miss him terribly.
I had some long and hard-fought
conversations with him.
He was going to help me
resolve this AFL-CIO thing
that's been going on forever out in
Nevada. with your help. of course.
When the union stands
in the way of innovation.
it's sentencing itself to death.
I do admire the way
you hang on to your party.
Your loyalty.
Did I hear that Lieutenant
General Nancy Gallagher
will be appearing
with you later today?
I think she'd make
an excellent candidate.
if she decides
to run. of course.
Oh. she's going to run.
The President is
on a tight schedule.
Excuse me.
Well. this is a surprise.
You know how
Midwesterners feel about those.
Oh. don't listen to him. It's
about time you came out.
Seems we have
some things to discuss.
Yeah.
Well. as far as this special
election is concerned. Claire.
you need to know that the
soon to be retiring Miss Gallagher
is out of the question.
And I'm happy to see we're both fans
of the Declaration of Independence.
unalienable
rights. and all that.
But it says down here in the speech
you're gonna give later. where...
Miss Gallagher has my support.
- I believe Mark conveyed our concerns.
- And communicated mine. I hope.
She's a tax and spend
Democrat underneath that uniform.
A patriot with a
pristine resume.
- Claire. I'm...
- Who is very vocal
about keeping
private contractors
- away from U.S. military operations.
- Even as a negotiating point.
you can do better than her.
And I am tired of these
delays. Madam President.
It is time for you to deliver.
Your husband and
I had an agreement.
- Francis is dead. Bill.
- Promises were made.
Not by me.
Just like you.
I like to negotiate
my own agreements.
And make no mistake about it.
the Lieutenant General
is not an anomaly.
Oh. well. I know that.
I've seen your list of
candidates for the midterms...
- Yes. mostly women.
- I don't care what sex they are.
And for the record. nobody
loves women more than me.
But this slate of yours. it
will bankrupt the country.
They will set us
back a generation.
- They will completely...
- Support me.
And what I stand for.
- And what is that?
- Oh. come on. Bill.
No. no. no. Tell me. I wanna
know. What's your mission?
- I wanna know what your platform is.
- Oh. please.
I know you'd like to
drown D.C. all at once.
But I'm gonna tell you right
now. I cannot let that happen.
I still believe in government and
its ability to make the everyday lives
- of its citizens better.
- Yeah.
You don't want to
support my slate. that's fine
- Claire...
- All I ask is. stay out of the way.
There's a bill
sitting on your desk.
A bill that took years
and money to get passed.
You sign that.
and I know I got a
friend in the White House.
If not.
- then I don't.
- Enough.
Nothing good happens to you
when she's around. Nothing.
Why did you come
out for Francis?
For his foundation?
I don't think you
ever really liked him.
Probably never respected
him. Why back him now?
Because he gave us you.
Tell our friends I'll be back
down in time for the fireworks.
Just so you know. I
always liked Frank.
His desperation.
I'm sorry you can't stay.
I do enjoy curating
our little show.
I collect a variety of
fireworks shells as I travel.
Italy. Spain. China.
Do you know what the
hardest color to make is?
- Red?
- No. red's easy.
White's easy.
It's blue.
Very tricky chemistry.
involving copper and heat.
A truly bright blue
is extremely elusive.
Whatever Francis promised
or did. is buried with him.
No. I know.
We all need to let him go.
Start from some kind of scratch.
Though it must haunt you.
the fact that he died
next to you. in bed.
Hon.
be patient.
Are you saying she
doesn't like the name?
I think she finds it incomplete.
What's wrong with the
"Comprehensive Safety Act"?
"Comprehensive
Chemical Safety Act"?
Or we could go back to
the "Smarter Safety Act."
Would she like "Smarter" better?
No. we need a good acronym.
Mr. Vice President? Mark?
Yeah. Agreed.
At one point. we talked about
the Repeal Unsafe Regulation Act.
That's "RURAL" if we
come up with an "L."
Legislation?
That doesn't make
sense with the rest of it.
No. "RURAL." Rural
is too hard to say.
"SAFE" is good. "SAFETY."
- "FUTURE?"
- I like "FUTURE."
Federal Universal
Toxic and Unsafe...
- Regulation Eradication.
- Okay.
- The FUTURE Act.
- That could work.
May I ask. Mr. Vice President. does
her hesitation go beyond the name?
She'll come around.
I'm guessing by
the end of the day.
Because in one form or another
this bill has been on her desk since...
She'll sign it. Henry.
Bill?
What do you want me to do?
Yank her from her own military base?
When in the course of human
events. it becomes necessary
for one people to
dissolve the political bands
which have connected them
with another. you just have to do it.
Sever the relationship.
Our nation's founding document.
The Declaration of Independence.
America's independence.
was hard-fought and hard-won.
Are you still there?
Our Founding Fathers
imagined a nation that was free.
Free from despotism.
Free from absolute tyranny.
Free from an oppressive king.
Do you miss Francis?
Tyrants come in many forms.
From the American oligarchs trying
to change the very fabric of our society.
to autocrats
threatening from abroad.
Now. each one of us
has to defend our destiny.
And as I see it. the
fight against tyranny
is the only
justification for war.
My first one hundred days as
President have been difficult.
I lost my husband.
We were about to
celebrate 30 years together.
But I know what he would want.
For me to stop
mourning. and carry on.
With the help of women like
Lieutenant General Nancy Gallagher.
my presidency will not rest.
Nancy has been an inspiration
to me. A tireless warrior.
I promise her and all of you that
I will work on behalf of the rights
and freedoms earned over the
last 241 years of our democracy.
As I look into the eyes of you brave
soldiers standing before me today...
Here's the thing...
I'm feeling so proud right now.
Proud to be your Commander-in-Chief.
Whatever Francis told you the last
five years. don't believe a word of it.
Our country is 241
years old. my friends.
Let's wish this great nation a
happy birthday. Say it with me.
Happy Birthday. America!
It's going to be
different for you and me.
One more time.
I'm going to tell you the truth.
Happy Birthday. America!
- Thank you for your service.
- Thank you.
Thank you for your service.
- Thank you for your service.
- Thank you.
I want you to know how
wonderful it is to be here.
and meet all of
you new recruits.
So. thank you. Thank
you for your service.
- Thank you.
- Thank you. ma'am.
Thank you for your service.
- Where are you from. Private?
- Kalamazoo. Mister President.
- Excuse me. Madam President.
- That's quite all right.
I actually hate "Madam."
Makes me sound like I'm running
a brothel. and not a country.
- Thank you for your service.
- Thank you. Madam President.
Thank you for your service.
And where are you
from. Private Burton?
South Bend. ma'am.
Oh. I love Indiana.
I enlisted right
before you took office.
Well. I promise you. and
every woman in this country
that during my presidency.
the key components of the
Equal Rights Amendment
will finally pass. I'm
going to make sure of it.
I want you to
know I support you.
- Do you even have a plan?
- What did you say?
One that won't
get us all killed.
Would you have asked
me that if I were a man?
Madam President.
I've got a question.
- Madam President.
- Madam President!
One question. please!
How much longer till
we get to the plane?
Just another 25 minutes
or so. Madam President.
Okay. thank you.
Shit!
- Is she shot?
- Stay down! Stay down!
Shots fired! Shots fired!
Are you okay. Madam President?
- Are you all right?
- Yes.
Lone Star is safe.
Sir. someone just tried
to kill the President.
I just got the alert.
Is she all right?
This way.
Lincoln. Garfield. McKinley.
Kennedy.
Successful
assassinations. total of four.
The attempts. nine?
Jackson. both Roosevelts.
Truman. Ford. twice. Reagan.
the first Underwood. and...
I will say. whoever
tried to kill me.
perversely. it's the first sign of
real respect I've gotten in 100 days.
Somebody tried to kill her.
Bill?
Can you blame them?
The Underwoods have
always been hard of hearing.
She's not him.
Oh. no. no. She is not.
You know that
better than anyone.
- Is it public?
- Secret Service shut it down.
Standard procedure.
apparently. Threats beget threats.
Bill.
were you behind this?
We're gonna miss the show.
- How are y'all?
- Madam President.
Hi. I'm so sorry. I want to
apologize for the late departure.
I know you all have families
and festivities waiting.
Madam President. may
I ask what happened?
The Beast was re-routed due to
security concerns. Pretty routine.
Um. I know it's been a while.
since I've been back here.
I just wanted to wish you
all a very happy Fourth.
even if you're gonna be
celebrating it on the fifth.
I'm so sorry.
- Your speech. afterwards with...
- Yes. the new recruit.
If a new recruit. especially a
female one. can't speak her mind.
I don't know what kind
of country we actually are.
And be sure to tell us
if you run out of beer.
Because I am sure there's
a couple of cases left over
from the Carter administration.
And you're new.
Yes. ma'am. Melody Cruz.
I'm with Beltway Television.
Well. I hope everyone is
making you feel at home.
Very much so. It's an
honor to finally meet you.
I'm a bit overwhelmed. sorry.
Don't worry. I don't bite.
No. I know.
It's strange. I was supposed
to interview your husband.
It was scheduled for a
few days after he died.
It was going to be an exclusive.
We'd had a number of pre-interviews.
Questions we'd agreed on.
Questions like?
Like. was the President
going to pardon him. and when?
Will you? Even
now. posthumously?
I know you did an exclusive
with The New York Examiner.
but I'm guessing that's only
going to scratch the surface.
I bet you have more to say
- about the state of your marriage.
- Miss... Uh. Cruz. is it?
I don't know if
anyone's told you.
but when the President
visits this part of the plane.
it's usually considered
off the record.
But you can ask my Press
Secretary anything you like.
once we're back on the ground.
You're especially
quiet this evening.
Maybe I'm a little agitated.
Our patients don't do too
well when it comes to fireworks.
Pardon me.
Yes?
I don't understand why you
leave that on when we're meeting.
Well. it's not like you're saying
anything different. or new.
Your dedication to your
script would be admirable.
If it weren't so concerning.
In a few weeks. I'll be appearing at a
hearing regarding your state of mind.
And when it comes
to your confession...
Even a guilty man changes
his story now and then.
Who do you answer to?
I mean. who do you work for?
You.
That's the idea. anyway.
Everybody works for somebody.
I worked for a man
who refused to fail.
I respected that.
I appreciated it.
- I'd be dead without him.
- Why?
I was working as an
aide for a congressman.
He was idealistic and naive.
Had one term written all over him.
But I needed a
job. a place to be.
I was barely
keeping it together.
Francis and I met
at some function.
You know. the
kind you stand up at.
I don't know how he knew. but
I had eight bottles in my trunk.
I got through four that night
when he came to my door.
I don't remember
much. Not clearly.
He took me to his
home. But Claire...
Francis got me dry.
I shook so badly. I
thought I was gonna die.
And then when I finally got
clean. he gave me my first job.
As an aide?
Sort of.
He asked me to go talk to
Congressman Kyle from Iowa.
To what end?
To persuade him.
And I did.
But Claire.
the way she treated him.
in life and in death...
You pay a price when you
work for somebody like him.
Somebody you owe.
Somebody close to me
died in a car accident.
That's how I broke the
terms of my house arrest.
I went to see the
site of her wreck.
It was twisted on
the side of the road.
I just stood there.
An accident?
So they say.
And Zoe Barnes?
I killed her.
For the President?
That's what he used
to do when he won.
What did he leave you with?
Last thing that Francis gave me
was the letter opener from his desk.
I mean. I chose it. but...
But I guess really. the last
thing he gave me was an apology.
I spoke to him
the night he died.
My presidency will not rest.
Nancy has been an inspiration
to me. A tireless warrior.
I promise her and all of you that
I will work on behalf of the rights
and freedoms earned over the
last 241 years of our democracy.
Tyrants come in many forms.
Pathetic.
From the American oligarchs
trying to change the very...
Are you sure you don't want
to take an hour or two to...
Mark. I'm inside
the White House.
There's only two of us in the
Oval. so unless you're packing.
it's literally the
safest place I can be.
Well. I'm not packing.
Madam President.
but no one would fault you
for taking a breath for a minute.
I'm breathing just fine.
Can we keep news
of this contained?
I've taken every
possible step. I think.
So. who is he?
Well. they did
forensics on the route.
Compared notes
with the aerial detail.
Homeland Secretary and
the Bureau were brought in.
He never left the place
he took the shot from.
Can you answer a single
question. directly and simply?
He shot himself in the head
with his own U.S.
military issued handgun.
- And we're sure he's the one?
- Yeah. Pro-militia. Anti-government.
Dishonorably discharged last
year. All the typical markers.
Secret Service is confident.
And the Bureau is investigating.
How did Bill Shepherd get
his hands on my speech?
What? Well. the press
usually gets it hours before.
It wouldn't be that hard
to access a copy. I guess.
I won't be signing that today.
You went there to declare your
independence. and you declared war.
That was a mistake.
No. the mistake was I
didn't hire a Chief of Staff
and things are slipping
through the cracks.
That's where I have
to disagree with you.
We need to keep
this circle small.
You know. Francis
warned me about you.
I assure you. I serve at your
pleasure. Madam President.
You need to stop meeting
in my office without me.
Yes. ma'am.
Secret Service took the lead.
But do you believe the theory?
That it was a disgruntled service
person who took a shot at me?
PID does.
I'm asking what you think.
It depends if it was a
warning. or an actual attempt.
Given the accuracy.
the shooter would have
been informed enough to know
that a .50 caliber round
wouldn't penetrate The Beast.
I think he wanted to scare you.
On behalf of someone.
Lots of people make threats
against sitting Presidents.
I'm starting to believe
Francis was murdered.
Before he died. he aligned himself
with some very powerful people.
And I think they turned on
him and they wanted him dead.
and I think they
want me dead. too.
Do you think that sounds crazy?
No. ma'am.
But I think we need to bring
in Special Agent Bowman...
These people. these
powerful families.
they advocate dismantling
intelligence agencies.
CIA. FBI. Homeland.
You know that. right?
- Ma'am. I...
- We cannot bring
anyone else in at the moment.
I'm relying on you the way
I know my husband could.
So. please see
what you can find.
Is it ever "Nate."
or always "Nathan"?
Nathan.
Like Francis. For me. anyway.
Oh. have you spoken
to Doug Stamper?
No.
I'm so worried about him.
He did things no one in this
White House should be proud of.
Hey. Mom.
How many people
do you have there?
Not many. Nobody
that interesting. anyway.
Her visit to the base.
Independence speech.
even the naughty soldier.
is playing well for her.
Her charmed life persists.
Tell Uncle Bill
we should step up.
I can manage the
narrative. De-charm her.
He won't like that.
He's not going to like any of
it. so. what's the difference?
I don't know.
Mom. just say the word.
Trust me.
Don't do a thing
until I get back to you.
Can't even tell
you're still in D.C.
There are parts of this city
that will always remain a secret.
I don't think I'll be welcome back
in the White House press pool
- anytime soon. FYI.
- Doesn't matter.
She won't speak
to me. An interview?
- Not after...
- She will.
Tonight. for the first
time. he was forthcoming.
- But still saying he's guilty?
- Yeah. as always.
And did he mention
Mister Grayson by name?
No. He was just more distressed.
- So. he's getting worse?
- Or better. he's finally talking.
But the idea of his leaving
the facility anytime soon.
that's still out of the question.
I mean. for his own good.
He's either guilty of the crime.
- or psychotic for admitting to it.
- Madam President.
Miss Shepherd is on
the White House line.
Well. maybe it's time to give
him one of the antipsychotics.
Possibly. But we'd have to
consider his history of addiction.
By the way. in answer to your
question. it was a letter opener.
the last thing that Francis
gave him from his desk.
Keep me posted.
Charles. And. thank you.
Sure.
Are you prepared?
Excuse me?
Don't you remember?
Andover? Our prep school joke.
I'm prepared to fail the test.
Are you all right?
I'm sorry to call so late. I heard
about what happened today.
These things have a
tendency to leak out.
I'm worried about you.
It's bulletproof. The
motorcade glass.
- Did they catch the guy?
- How do you know it's a guy?
It's always a guy. Right?
What was it Bill wanted
adjusted in my speech?
Oh.
Something about freedom.
You're in my thoughts. Claire.
Thank you.
He's still with us.
don't you think?
- Who?
- Frank.
We're so glad we got to spend so
much time with him before he died.
He told us some
fascinating things.
He's been on my mind.
Bill and I finally went down
to Gaffney a few days ago.
to pay our respects.
Claire. I shouldn't
have let them! I'm sorry!
Come on out. now!
Are you still there?
Yes.
I know. You want to know
what really happened to him.
A man like Francis
doesn't just die.
That would be...
What's the word?
"Convenient."